be they performers or speakers or politicians who
made appearances on campus? Well, as I was just
talking about Town Hall, I remember that Ray
Armstrong and his band came here. Ray Anthony. Ray
Anthony, you're right, Ray Anthony. And a couple
of singers, it seemed like one of them's name was
Cummings. Charles Lawton came and had readings.
Yeah. I remember that very well because it came
time for the performance. Spike White, who was
head of student activities, well, part of student
activities and head of all that business, came
around and told us, we've got a real problem.
What's the problem? Mr. White said, well, Mr.
Lawton says he's not going to perform tonight.
We've got the whole down hall filled with people.
Well, he's paid here to come. Well, he's not
feeling too well. But they finally convinced him
to go out about 30 minutes later, and he put on a
magnificent performance. So that kind of thing
sort of sticks in my mind. All right, the other
thing, talking about who came, Rod Eisenhower
came a couple times when I was here on the campus.
One, well, mainly he came to inaugurate Dr.
Harrington was president of the university.
Guyon Hall, what role did it play as a facility in
student life? Guyon Hall was an assembly hall at
the end, at the south end of Middle Cary Walk,
located about where Rudder Tower is now. And it was
the place where we had various assemblies. When we
had religious emphasis week, that's where those
that wanted to go, that's where the speakers were.
on cultural kind of things like I was just
mentioning. That's where the performances were.
It was the largest place on campus in the form of an
auditorium kind of thing. And movies. That was
used. And then, yeah, movies, you're right. On
campus, the movies that were given on campus were
shown in Grand Hall. Please describe Religious
Emphasis Week as you remember it. Well, that was a
week set aside. I remember particularly my senior
year, the people that came, but we had three or four
excellent speakers that came. One was a chaplain
from Washington, D.C., one was a minister from
Dallas, and several others. And they just, they
would have main speeches, they would have a number
of sort of workshops where we talked about various
things, different topics. It was an affair that
lasted a whole week. I thought it was an excellent
program.
G. Raleigh, was it built? G. Raleigh White? That's
a blank in my memory. G. Raleigh White apparently
was being built when I was here on the campus.
Whether it opened by the time I left tonight, I
don't really remember that at all. It's just
blank. Where was commencement held? Where'd you
graduate? I think we graduated from Kyle Peel.
Do you, can you describe what commencement was?
You know, I'm sort of blank on that. I remember a
commission, we had a commission Ceremony in Gine
Hall. In Gine. But I think we were too big for Gine,
and I don't know necessarily, I'm blank on T.
Raleigh White. We may have had the commencement in
there, but it seemed like it was kind of people. Was
the commissioning speaker some notable, famous
person? I don't remember any. So it wasn't Dwight
Eisenhower or somebody like that, you would. No.
What were the major student activity groups, MSC
Council and what else? Well, it was Corps of
Cadets, which at that time still was the main
organization here on the campus. It was the MSC
Council. There were various clubs, hometown
clubs. There were radio clubs, photography
clubs, various things. What about singing
cadets? There was singing cadets. There was a
band, and like today, they've played for the games
during the fall, but during the spring they sort of
played a different kind of music.
Where's that? I'm not asking now if you were a
member. Were there, as far as you know, any secret
fraternities then? There apparently were,
because I remember my junior year, a number of
cadets got in trouble for At least the authorities
thought they belonged to the secret
organization. And at that time, that was against
the universal rules. What were the names or name of
those? The only name I remember was called the TTs
or the True Texans. And I've since heard about
swastikas and stickers or whatever, but that may
be all the same thing. I don't know. Let's see. And
they, as far as you know, what was their purpose? I
don't know. I don't really know. Let's see,
project houses, were they still in use in those
days? Those houses down at Southgate that had been
built during the Depression for... No, at the
Southgate, when I was a student here, what I
remember is they were... They were married
students' houses. A series of them all looked
alike, and they were there until not too long ago.
Now, what's just now been torn down the police
station was originally a project house, but I
don't remember what it was when I was here.
Let's see. There were still some veterans here on
the campus when you... There were a number of
veterans, and... They didn't have to be in the
Corps, but there were a number in my graduating
petroleum engineering class. We had, I guess,
eight or ten veterans. Did you all think of them as
old students? I suppose we probably did early on,
but once we got to know them and by the time we were in
our fourth year of graduating, or fifth year, they
were just part of the class. What role did
international events play in your thoughts about
life after graduation? In my own particular
thoughts, very little. I don't remember too much
about it. The international events that were
impacting, I guess, were like the Korean War. I
joined the National Guard when I was in high
school. And after my freshman year here, summer of
1950 we were at summer camp and we thought we were
going to never come home from summer camp but that
didn't turn out that way but that would be the
international kind of event and then as I went into
the when I got an advanced contract in the Air Force
I had to drop out of the National Guard because I was
in the Army at that time but you know we thought
about in terms of conflicts overseas and that kind
of thing that's where we might go as far as going
into business, so I didn't give it much thought.
Did A&M help you with summer jobs?
The A&M did one year. See, I guess that
was after my freshman year. Again, I went to . My dad
had died, and my mother had moved to Austin. And I
didn't know anybody in Austin, be home for the
summer and work. I had to work. So I went to Mr.
McQuillan again and asked him if he thought that
Mr. Wynne could help me get a job in Austin.
And should I write him? He said, well, let me just
take care of that for you. And it turned out that
that's what happened. He cut word back to go see a
couple of people in Austin. went out and put me to
work with a moving company, working all summer,
which is great. Now, what routine did you and other
students have for going home or other places on
weekends when you didn't have a car? We had a great
hitchhiking system that had developed over the
years at A&M, and we used it extensively if you
wanted to go anywhere. I wanted to go anywhere at
least for the first two or three years because I
didn't have a car. I didn't know anybody with a car.
and the system was most anywhere you went there was
a certain spot that had been selected and like out
at the annex you'd go out to the main gate on highway
21 and if you if you were heading west you were okay
because if you were you got a ride you could keep
that ride but if you're going east you had to
hitchhike in the brown and then in the direction
from there you had to go the aggie hitchhiking
place And where was that in Bryan? I don't remember
exactly where it was. I never really early on went
that direction, but it must have been about where
Highway 21 and Highway 6 cross, not the new bypass,
but the old Highway 6. Once you got to the camp? Once
you got to that hitchhiking place, then there was a
protocol that you went through. In the first
place, you knew you were going to be at the end of the
line because that was in the album. But you went up
to the man that was first in line, and you met
everybody all the way down the line. And then you
took your place. But it didn't go by classes. It
went by who got there, first come, first serve kind
of thing. And if you were in line and four seniors
came up behind you, that was OK. They wouldn't go to
bunk you out of line. Where, from the main campus,
where was that hitchhiking location? Out of what
we called the East Gate. On that time, Highway 6,
the bypass wasn't here, so we went out to the main
gate and drove south and north. That's where we
were going. What did you wear and what gear did you
take with you hitchhiking? Well, the best thing to
wear if you were hitchhiking was a uniform,
because people anywhere, if they saw an Aggie
standing on the road hitchhiking, they'd pick him
up. And usually, I took very little gear. I had a
little shaving kit, a toothbrush, and cestas in
there, and maybe a little small bag with a change of
clothes. That was about it. Let's see, how did an
Aggie get a date? Get her to and from the campus and
so forth? Sometimes wonder about that. The way you
got dates, well, obviously people that you knew,
mainly to meet other girls and so on through
friends. We were going to another town like my
freshman year. I didn't have a roommate in the
barracks because there were 20 of us, I think, in
one barracks, but we had bunkmates. We had
double-decker bunks and so my bunkmate was a
fellow from Waco and when we went on a court trip to
Waco, obviously he got me and several other people
mates with friends of his. So that was the main way
we met people. If girls were coming to the campus,
they would either come by bus or train. They were
coming from a distance, or some of them, if they had
friends. A lot of them, like, if they were coming
from Austin, would more than likely come with
friends that had college. So it was a little
difficult to get Austin over here by bus. Where did
they stay here? They stayed all over the place.
with faculty members, with anybody that you knew
that you could get a room. A lot of people would rent
rooms on weekends. Did you ever hear of moose pots
and beast buckets? No, I don't think so. Those
terms would be used later. You and your buddies
would have blind dates with a group of girls. Yeah,
okay. And there would be a pot here as to which one
got stuck with the worst one. They, meanwhile,
would have and I'd forgotten which was male and
which was female, and each group thought they were
the only ones worried about getting stuck. I don't
remember those particular terms, but there were
other terms. Now, on a Saturday night, if an Aggie
had a date, where would he take her? To what kind of
place or event? Normally, the reason you'd bring a
date here to the campus was because there was a
dance or something like that that you were
bringing her here for. other than that people
would go to their hometown or wherever the date was
and have a date there. Please describe one of those
dances. Well the one I remember the most I guess was
military ball my senior year and that was military
weekend so there were a number of distinguished
people here on the campus. The ranking officer
that came down was General McCullough famous in
World War II, Battle of the Bulge time, for saying
nuts to the Germans. But they were, I remember
going out to Eastwood when they came flying in on a
converted B-17 that had been made to a transport,
and they must have been about 20 people or so that
came in. So that was, the ball was just part of the
overall weekend, where we had a lunch and a parade
and The combat ball had been the night before. So it
was a big weekend. So where was that dance held? The
dance, like normal, was held in Sevesa where they
would clear out all the tables and everything and
have a big floor for dancing. And what did people
wear? The cadets would wear their uniforms and the
girls usually had on their evening gowns and the
finery that they had brought with them. Big bands?
We had, for that military ball, I'm sure it was the
Aggieland orchestra that played. I'm not
absolutely sure of that. But there was an
orchestra, which we didn't mention
earlier. Describe the community of College
Station that surrounded the campus. What was
here, and where was it? There wasn't a whole lot
around College Station. The north gate area was
the central. If you went off campus for
businesses, and if you didn't go downtown Bryan,
then the Northgate area was essentially where the
businesses were. There were housing that a number
of the factory lived in to the south. Those homes
are still there. To the east of Eastgate, the older
part of that was there at the time. And a number of
the factory that I knew, two of them two of my
petroleum professors lived over there. When I was
a graduate student here, we rented, two friends of
mine and I rented an apartment over near the East
Gate. We used to go off campus to a Mexican
restaurant. It was somewhere over about the
Chimney Hill area. Maybe not quite that far, but,
you know, that, it wasn't that far to drive, but it
was sort of far out as far as it was concerned. It was
sort of beyond the houses and That's what I thought
so. What businesses were at Northgate?
Lippox had a bookstore there. The campus theater
was there and operating very well as a movie
theater. I mean, it was a nice place to go. I can't
remember the name, but the university bookstore
was there. Later branched out to those places and
called it a station. I think that photography shop
on the corner was there. The boot shop was there.
And a photographer came under name back on old
college back off of the University block or two and
was in there, still there I think. I haven't been in
there in a number of years. That's about all I can
remember. Must have been a couple of eating
places, though. If you and I came by bus, where did
we arrive and depart? Where was the bus station for
College Station? I don't remember. I think it was
Eastgate. What about the railroad? Well, the
railroad is where the railroad is now, but the
depot
was right opposite the Grove in that area. That's
the best way of describing it. and the creamery was
nearby. Where, if you and I wanted to get an
alcoholic beverage, where could we have gotten a
drink? Well, for an old German from Brunham,
they'd say this, but I don't really remember
trying to find an alcoholic drink around here. I
think I drank something when we'd go off on
weekends to Houston or whatever. I drank beer or
whatever, but I don't remember particularly
searching for any around here. But there was the
famous Whiskey Bridge out off of Highway, what is
that, 50? 60. Going west on the campus, University
Extension. As far as I know, that was legal and
everything. Yeah, that was legal. That was over in
Burleson County, which is, having had to be of age.
Let's see, were there any... I can't think of any
campus,
big campus catastrophes, fires, or anything like
that. There were no big campus events during your
five years here, were
there? No catastrophes like that that I can
recall. At the inauguration of Dr. Harrington,
were there any other big, special, one-of-a-kind
events? The opening of the MSC was a big and Dr.
Harrington's inauguration. Before I left here,
before I graduated, Dr. Morgan, the president, I
don't recall that there was an inauguration
ceremony for him. I guess maybe Dr. Harrington's
was the one. We had
We had our problems. I was Colonel of the Corps my
senior year, and it seemed like there was a problem
every week of some sort or another. I didn't know
that. So describe for me the process of going from
the annex to becoming Corps Commander. When did
you begin to realize you might have that potential
and so forth? Well, you know, looking back on it, It
was quite interesting. I didn't, you know, I came
here from a tiny school and was awed by all these
worldly people from Houston and places like that.
And while I became really dear friends with three
or four guys from Dallas, we started out in the
barracks out there in Phoenix together and went to
the unit that I mentioned earlier, Squadron 10 and
the Corps together. And
I guess, you know, in my sophomore year in Squadron
10, toward the end of the year, when people were
being picked for
positions the coming year, when I was asked if I
wanted to go into the Corps of Staff. And, you know,
that was an honor. So, yeah, sure, I did. And then, I
don't remember now, there were six or eight
juniors that were put on the Coast Staff. I mean, as
juniors who were on the Coast Staff. Maybe more,
but I think about eight. And I didn't really expect
to be a Corps Commander. I just thought, well, I'd
go there and get that experience. And then maybe my
senior year, I'd probably not go back to be a unit
commander. There'd probably be a staff
commander, or wing, or battalion, or something
like that. I couldn't say battalion, too. We
didn't have battalions in the Air Force. But we
rotated, being what was called a sergeant major,
the chief junior in the corps. And I was about the
third or fourth one to rotate. I forget now how long
we kept that job, about six weeks or something.
During my rotation, I felt like I'd done a good job,
and I felt like I was doing as well and maybe better
than a couple of the others that I'd fought early
on. Anyway, I don't know how it all happened. I was
really surprised in the end. We went through, I
don't recall exactly what it was, but we went
before panels. Back in that time, as opposed to
today, today people put their own name in if they
want to. want that job, which was fine. Back at that
time, we didn't, you know. People would, you know,
I don't know how I was picked to be, to go before the
panel. But anyway, I remember the interviews with
some of the other cadets, seniors, and a number of
the military officers on the panel, and talking to
them, answering questions, and that kind of
thing. And I guess, you know, in the end, I was
surprised to be the one that was picked. And I'm
assuming then as a senior you were part of the
screening review group. As you now think of it from
both sides of having been selected and having been
one of those who would later help make the next
selection, what were the key qualities that you
think they were looking for?
Certainly leadership, because that's a key
thing. But a good part of leadership is
personality, being able to get along with people,
and not being able to leave without getting
everybody all upset about what orders you have to
give,
that kind of thing. Academics certainly play the
role, because this is an academic institution,
and you don't necessarily want to pick a guy that's
just about to bunk out. But I remember the fellow
that followed me, who was picked, was on the poor
staff also when I was a senior. You know, he was
obviously of that group of juniors, the one that
could do the best job.
Do you think geography, parentage, family income
played any part? Geography certainly didn't. My
family income when I was here had no part at all.
And parentage, of course, parentage does have a
big role. Oh, no, but I mean the fact that you were
Germanic or rich or poor. No, no, no. But the way
your parents raised you and all that has
tremendous . . . Of course. That was the thing that
always impressed me about A&M. And in fact, it was
one of the reasons that I, even before I got the
opportunity or the scholarship to come here, that
I was leaning toward A&M. Because I had been told
some things about Texas University. And I had been
told that if you go to A&M, you make it strictly on
your own merit. It doesn't matter. And I saw that in
action because in my barracks at the annex of a very
wealthy man in Houston, a very, very big Aggie, and
we all knew that early on, but you know, and I became
great friends with him, but that had absolutely
nothing to do with anything else. He got kidded
some, we all got kidded about something early, so
he was strictly on the and what you yourself could
do. And I hope it's still that way. It is still your
target. Let's stay with your senior year as Corps
Commander. Describe a typical week's routine for
the Corps Commander your senior year. Well, I
think the main part of it was sort of the early few
weeks getting started, getting things, I
wouldn't say necessarily organized, because all
of the cadet leaders had been picked and they were
in place and all that, but it still takes a little
bit for an organization to get functioning,
getting used to each other, and getting used to
your new role and that kind of thing. We had new
freshmen on campus, getting all that going. Once
beyond that, it became sort of a routine. You're
all, your classes, you're still taking a, you
know, in those days you took a heavy load of
classes. I finished building a degree in four
years, and I think I finished with about 156 hours.
So I was taking 18, 19, 20 hours. And so had that go.
Sort of typical was during the day, no particular
problem. We were early morning formation, get our
meal, go back to our room. We had a class, which you
usually get fairly early, going off to class. It
was after the classes where things really
happened. A lot of core activities, always late in
the afternoon. The units are practicing their
marching, their drills, doing various things.
Part of the military science classes are various
labs. But as corps commander in the evenings,
there were a number of people that generally
stopped by. particularly right after we'd have
our evening meal. They'd come over to my room and
they had either something that, some bright idea
that they wanted to try out or some gripe that they
had about something or other. Some of them
wouldn't even wait that long. They'd come up to the
table. At that time, we served family style in
Duncan. And so each unit had its own tables and the
core staff sat at one particular table. Two
tables, I guess, there in one place. And so
everybody knew where we were. We'd take care of
some of the business during the meal. Do you
remember any particular incident or problem you
had to cope with? You know, it's funny what sticks
in your mind or pops back, but a kid, a good friend of
mine, every time I see him now, because it sort of
saved my, I wouldn't say my skin, but it saved
embarrassment. At one point, we were eating, and I
was sitting at the head of the table, and he was just
to my right, so our legs were so close together.
This senior friend of mine came up, and he was, I was
Air Force, and the previous corps commander had
been Air Force out of the same unit. And this guy
came over with the drive, and this was, I don't
know, this was well into the fall semester, way
past everything happening, but he just said, well
then it's not right, but Corps Commander, two
years in a row, out of the Air Force, out of the same
unit. Or out of the Army, and so on. And he said
something else, which I don't really remember now
exactly what happened, but it sort of irritated
me, and I started to stand up and argue with him. And
when I started to go up, my friend to my right jammed
my legs, and I couldn't get up. It made me sit back
down, and so I sort of, that broke my tension. I
almost had to laugh. So I just sort of said, oh, you
know, Jimmy, forget about it. We're going back
here. So, you know, things like that. But it's a
great learning experience. Really a tremendous
learning experience. So you didn't have any
hazing, nothing caught fire? We had hazing
incidents. We had one unit shut down early on. One
unit actually disbanded. What did they do? They
were hazing. They had a board, I think. And
I know that was a learning experience,
particularly for the unit commander at that time.
Unfortunately, he should have learned a little
earlier. But he and several people came over to the
Corps staff area and said, well, you've got to
help. What's the problem? Well, we're being
disbanded. Well, what happened? Well, they
caught us with a bullet. What can I do? What do you
think I can do about that? Well, you've got to help.
I said, listen, there's nothing I can do. You guys
knew the rules.